{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\csgray\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20720\viewh13420\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 For setting up a headless Raspberry Pi via Ethernet on MacOS: \

\f1\b0 \
\
1. System Preferences >> Network >> USB 10/100/1000 LAN \
	\'97Configure IPv4: Manually\
	\'97IP address: 10.1.2.2\
	\'97Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0\
\
2.  Download \'91The Unarchiver\'92 (to unzip Raspbian image) \
3. Download \'91balenaEtcher\'92 \
4. Open balenaEtcher and select the Raspian image you want to write to your SD card\
5. Click \'91Flash\'92 (to flash the Raspian image to the MicroSD card)\
\
6. > cd /Volumes/boot \
7. > touch ssh \
\
8. > cd /Volumes/boot\
9. > nano cmdline.txt\
	\'97At the end of cmdline.txt, add \'93ip=10.1.1.1\'94\
\
10. System Preferences >> Sharing >> Enable \'91Remote Login\'92\
11. > ssh pi@raspberrypi.local 
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \
12. > sudo apt update\
13. > sudo apt install realvnc-vnc-server realvnc-vnc-viewer\
14. > vncserver\
\
15. Connect to \'93raspberrypi.local:1\'94 in VNC Connect\
\
16. Pi Preferences >> Enable VNC\
\
\
\'97 \'97 \'97 \'97 \'97 \'97 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=15VjDVCISj0"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=15VjDVCISj0}}\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \
1. 
\f3\fs22 \cf4 \CocoaLigature0 curl -L https://install.pivpn.io | bash\
2. Static IP\
\
	192.168.1.224/24\
	192.168.1.1 (Gateway)\
\
3. UDP\
4. Port 1194\
5. DNS >> noip.com >> siegmanraspberrypi.ddns.net\

\f2\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature1 6. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://192.168.1.1/0.2/gui/#/login//credentials"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul https://192.168.1.1/0.2/gui/#/login//credentials}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 >> admin/admin >> advanced >> router settings >> DynDNS >> NoIP (Provider) etc. \
7. pivpn add >> alexraspberrypi\
8. password = \'93bigbernie\'94 \
9. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://192.168.1.1/0.2/gui/#/login//credentials"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul https://192.168.1.1/0.2/gui/#/login//credentials}} >> admin/admin >> advanced >> access control >> port forwarding >> \
\
** TRY PORT 11940\
}